JavaScript supports two basic data structures for storing information, Arrays and Hashes.  Let's look at how we might add an Array and a Hash to a View Model.

## Arrays

TypeScript arrays can be defined and initialized in two ways, with the `Array<T>` type, or `T[]` type.  Both of these are equivalent, but one or the other may be easier to write depending on the situation.

So, if we were to create an Array of `string` elements, it would be.

```` TypeScript
let list: string[] = [];
````

This code simply creates an variable called `list`, defined as an `string[]` and initializes it to be an empty `Array`.  It is important to note that we have initialized this variable, otherwise it would equal `undefined`.

Now that we have created an `Array`, we can access its values with a regular `Assignment Operator`.  We can read and write values with:

```` TypeScript
let value = list[0];
list[1] = 2;
````

We can also use any of the `Array` methods, such as `Array.prototype.push(value: any): void;`

```` TypeScript
list.push(3);
````

## Hashes

Next, we have JavaScript Hashes, which are actually just regular Objects.

TypeScript Hashes can be defined as an `interface`, which stores elements with either `string` or `number` indexes.  JavaScript allows for mixing index types, but TypeScript requies it to be one or the other.

## External Links

For more information on Arrays, visit [Array - JavaScript | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)

For more information on Objects, visit [Objects - JavaScript | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

## View Models

We may store Arrays and Hashes as properties on a View Model.  For example:

```` TypeScript
class ViewModel {
    list = [];
    map = {};
}
````

However, just like regular properties, changes to these properties will be ignored.  Again, if we add our decorators, we can subscribe to changes.

```` TypeScript
class ViewModel {
    @observable list = [];
    @observable map = {};
}
````

We can also be more specific about what is stored in Arrays and Hashes.

```` TypeScript
class ViewModel {
    @observable list: string[];
    @observable map: {
        [index: string]: string
    };
}
````
