In order to develop our Single Page Application, we need to create a back-end service.  For consistency, we're going to use a Node.js server with `sierra`, an MVC framework.

Let's create a new project for our service.

First, we need to ensure Yeoman is installed

    npm install -g yo

Then we need to install our Yeoman generator for TypeScript

    npm install -g generator-typescript-project

Now we are ready to create our new project.  In our projects folder, we will create a directory `example-service`.

    mkdir example-service

Enter the new directory

    cd example-service

Now let's run our generator, and answer any prompts.

    yo typescript-project

## Preparing our Project

Let's install our dependencies.  First, we need to install `sierra`.

    npm install sierra

Open `src/tests/test.ts` and remove any content.

Open `tsconfig.json` and change `compilerOptions.target` to `es2017`.

## Creating a Sierra Server

Then open `src/scripts/main.ts`.  Remove any content, add the following lines.

```` TypeScript
import Sierra from 'sierra';

let sierra = new Sierra();

sierra.init();
sierra.listen(8001);
````

Note that we have imported `sierra`.  Then we created a Sierra instance, initialized it, and started listening on port 8001.

Let's go ahead and run the following in the command prompt.

    tsc
    npm run node

Open your browser, and navigate to `http://localhost:8001`.  You should see the message `"no route found"`.

This means that Sierra is running correctly, but we haven't yet configured it to do anything.

## Middleware

Sierra works by running a series of "Middleware", which are simply a set of functions which are run in order, every time a Request is received by the server.  Middleware handle common tasks like retrieving Session information, parsing Post Body data, checking Authentication, etc.  Each Middleware returns a `Promise`, which allows them to pause execution in case of Database calls and the like.  If any unhandled exceptions occur, they are handled by the Error Middleware.  Once all of the Middleware have run, execution is sent to the "Router" which parses the URL, and runs a specified function.

Let's take a look at how this all works.

In your `src/scripts/main.ts`, update the import line to:

```` TypeScript
import Sierra, { BodyMiddleware } from 'sierra';
````

This brings in the `BodyMiddleware`.  Now let's add it to our Middleware stack.

After `let sierra = new Sierra();` add the line

```` TypeScript
sierra.use(BodyMiddleware.handle);
````

This will cause our `BodyMiddleware` to check for any Post Body data, and assemble it for use.

## Routing

If you build and run our server again, you'll see it still doesn't do anything.  We need to set up routes.

Create a file `src/scripts/controllers/HomeController.ts`.

Inside the file, add the lines:

```` TypeScript
import { Controller, method } from 'sierra';

export default class HomeController extends Controller {

    constructor() {
        super('/');
    }

    @method('get')
    async index() {
        return 'Home/index';
    }
}
````

Note that we extend `Controller`, which provides a basic container for routes.  In the constructor, we set the base of our route to `'/'`, which means it will be our default Controller.  We'll take a look at auto-generated route names later.

Then we created a "Controller method" called `index` by adding the `@method` decorator and passing `'get'`.  This means our route will only respond to the `GET` HTTP method.

We also named the method `index` which is a reserved method name.  It means this is the default method, and since we are already using the default controller, it means this method will run if we run the default URL.  Hence, we have just created a method for `http://localhost:8001`.

Now, let's add our controller to Sierra.

Open `src/scripts/main.ts` and import our `HomeController`:

```` TypeScript
import HomeController from './controllers/HomeController';
````

Now, before the init call, add `HomeController` to sierra:

```` TypeScript
sierra.addController(new HomeController());
````

Build and run our server, and again navigate to `http://localhost:8001`.  You should see the message `"Home/index"`.

## Gateway

Before we can build a full RESTful API, we need some data to serve.  For simplicity, we're going to use a local, JavaScript only database.  For a production server, this database would likely be insufficient, but it will work great for our purposes.

Go to the command prompt, and install `nedb`.

    npm install nedb

Create the file `src/scripts/Gateway.ts` and paste the following lines:

```` TypeScript
import * as Nedb from 'nedb';

export interface IModifier {
    $set: any;
    $unset: any;
    $inc: any;
    $min: any;
    $max: any;
    $push: any;
    $pop: any;
    $addToSet: any;
    $pull: any;
    $each: any;
    $slice: any;
}

export interface IQuery<T> {
    $lt: T;
    $lte: T;
    $gt: T;
    $gte: T;
    $in: T;
    $nin: T;
    $ne: T;
    $exists: T;
    $regex: RegExp;
}

export interface IDoc {
    _id: string;
}

export default class Gateway<T> {
    db: Nedb;

    constructor(file?: string) {
        this.db = new Nedb({
            filename: file,
            autoload: true
        });
    }

    create(doc: T): Promise<T & IDoc> {
        return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
            this.db.insert(doc, function (err, newDoc) {
                if (err) {
                    reject(err);
                } else {
                    resolve(newDoc as any);
                }
            });
        });
    }

    get(_id: string): Promise<T & IDoc> {
        return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
            this.db.findOne({ _id: _id }, function (err, doc) {
                if (err) {
                    reject(err);
                } else {
                    resolve(doc as any);
                }
            });
        });
    }

    update(_id: string, doc: T | IModifier): Promise<T & IDoc> {
        return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
            this.db.update({ _id: _id }, doc, {}, function (err, docs) {
                if (err) {
                    reject(err);
                } else {
                    resolve(docs[0]);
                }
            });
        });
    }

    find(query: Partial<T> | keyof T): Promise<(T & IDoc)[]> {
        return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
            this.db.find(query, function (err, docs) {
                if (err) {
                    reject(err);
                } else {
                    resolve(docs);
                }
            });
        })
    };

    delete(_id: string): Promise<number> {
        return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
            this.db.remove({ _id: _id }, {}, function (err, numRemoved) {
                if (err) {
                    reject(err);
                } else {
                    resolve(numRemoved);
                }
            });
        });
    }
}
````

This will create a Gateway for accessing our database.

Now create a folder `data` in the root of your project.  This will be used for storing our database.  If you need to reset any of the data, simply delete the files in this directory.  Also, if you decide to store your project in source control, do not commit this directory.

## Service

Now that we have a database, let's create our service to access the data.

We are going to create a list of Products that a user can manage.  They will have a `name` and a `description`.

Create a file `src/scripts/data/IProduct.ts`, and paste the following lines:

```` TypeScript
export interface IProduct {
    name: string;
    description: string;
}
````

This interface will define the fields of our Product.

Now create a file `src/scripts/controllers/ProductController.ts`, and paste the following lines:

```` TypeScript
import { Controller, method } from 'sierra';

import Gateway from './Gateway';

import { IProduct } from '../data/IProduct';

export default class ProductController extends Controller {
    productGateway: Gateway<IProduct> = new Gateway<Test>('data/products.db');
}
````

Note that we have created a Controller called `ProductController`.  We also imported both `IProduct` and `Gateway` to create a gateway property.  Our Gateway instance points at a file `data/products.db` which will store our data.

Also note that we didn't specify a base route.  Sierra will then generate a route automatically based on the Controller's name.  In this case, the base will be set to `product`.

Now let's create our Controller methods.  We are creating a RESTful API, which in general conform to certain standards.  We want to support five operations: List, which will give us all records, and our "CRUD" operations:  Create, Read, Update, Delete.

1. **List** - Uses the `GET` HTTP method, and is the default route `/product`.
2. **Create** - Uses the `POST` HTTP method, and is the default route `/product`.
3. **Read** - Uses the `GET` HTTP method, and is the route with an `id` parameter, `/product/:id`.
4. **Update** - Uses the `PUT` HTTP method, and is the route with an `id` parameter, `/product/:id`.
5. **Delete** - Uses the `DELETE` HTTP method, and is the route with an `id` parameter, `/product/:id`.

Let's create the **List** method.  Inside the class, add the following lines:

```` TypeScript
@method('get')
async index() {
    return await this.gateway.find({});
}
````

Here we have created another `index` method, but in this case we are returning the results of `this.gateway.find({})`, which will return all rows of our products.

Now let's create the **Create** method.  Inside the class, add the following lines:

```` TypeScript
@method('post')
async post($body: IProduct) {
    return this.gateway.create($body);
}
````

Here we again used another reserved method name, `post`.  If we use a reserved method name that matches the HTTP method, we will use the default route.  Then we used a "special parameter" `$body`, which is provided by Sierra to represent the Post Body data.  We then store the `$body` with `this.gateway.create($body)`.

For our next three methods, we are going to use "query parameters".  These are named portions of the URL pathname which are parsed and passed as parameters.

```` TypeScript
@method('get', '/:id')
async get(id: string) {
    return await this.gateway.get(id);
}
````

Here we defined our route as `/:id`, which is appended onto the `product` base route.  It is then automatically passed as the `id` parameter.  These parameters are all type `string`.  We then pass the `id` to `this.gateway.get(id)`.

For our remaining methods, we use similar ideas.

```` TypeScript
@method('put', '/:id')
async put(id: string, $body: IProduct) {
    return this.gateway.update(id, $body);
}

@method('delete', '/:id')
async delete(id: string) {
    return this.gateway.delete(id);
}
````

## Testing

In order to test our service, we will need a better tool than a browser.  Download **Postman** from <https://www.getpostman.com/>.
